our fear of snakes is really a fear of
vipers yet it's mixed with fascination
to if there's one Piper everyone's heard
of its this one the rattlesnake
rattlesnakes belong to a group called
pit vipers found all over the new world
like all Vipers they're ambush predators
there's a motley don't know about snakes
that's one of the things that makes them
dangerous rattlesnakes hunt at night so
if you want to hunt them that's the best
time to do it
a junkyard is Viper heavy with plenty of
hiding places to launch enamel somewhere
in the darkness the world's most
prolific killer is waiting it's armed to
the eyeballs with a lethal injection of
them Shelton Herbert and Curtis railing
are snake bite scientists they're armed
with just a rubber glove on a stick but
there is method in their madness tonight
they've left the safety of the lab to
collect a sample of fresh venom in the
wild
they want to measure the poison in a
rattler strength first they've got to
get the snake to bite the glove
Viper's are predators but it's
self-defense that makes them deadly to
humans
it's not our fear of vipers that's a
problem it's their fear of us suddenly
in the spotlight baffled by this bizarre
intruder the snake turns on its first
line of defense it doesn't want to
resort to violence it can store about a
teaspoon of venom at a time but once
used up that takes days to refill so
here's the dilemma to bite or not to
bite there is a compromise the rattler
can Bluff it use its fangs but not its
venom it's called a dr light but if you
still don't take the hint you're asking
for the real thing
frozen in time we see what makes the
Vipers bite unique erect fangs right up
front they're only in the victim for a
fraction of a second but that's long
enough if this was your hand it would
need a shot of anti-venom fast